Retail uyuni install new #12209 keichwa (#535)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/retail/pages/retail-uyuni-server-setup.adoc

[[retail-server-setup]]
= Retail Uyuni Server Setup

This section covers {productname} {smr} Server setup, using these procedures:

* Start {productname} setup with {yast}
* Create the main administration account with the {productname} {webui}
* Name your base organization and add login credentials

> * Synchronize the openSUSE Leap channel

Reviewer: If you're using a process/procedure IA (which, iirc, we do a lot in the Retail Guide), then you should make sure that the steps in the process exactly match the the titles of the procedures. Otherwise, it can be super confusing.

+
// ^^^ CHECKIT

[[retail-server-setup-yast]]
== Set up {productname} with {yast}

This section guides you through {productname} setup procedures.

> .Procedure: {productname} Setup

Reviewer: I think this won't render properly. You'll need to do a local build to check.

Author: astonishingly, it builds fine :)  antora and pdf!

== Check Synchronization Status

include::snippets/check_sync_webui_uyuni.adoc[]

include::snippets/check_sync_cli.adoc[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
{opensuse} channels can be very large.
Synchronization can sometimes take several hours.
====

== Trust GPG Keys on Clients

include::snippets/trust_gpg.adoc[]

// FIXME Starting from here, everything is preliminary
// Feedback provided by Lukas
== Create Activation Key for a Branch Server and the Retail Terminals

The branch server is based on an {productname} Proxy.
Its activation key must contain these child channels:

* openSUSE Leap {opensuse-version} Updates (x86_64)
* Uyuni Client Tools for openSUSE Leap {opensuse-version} (x86_64)
* Uyuni Proxy Stable for openSUSE Leap {opensuse-version} (x86_64)

The activation key for retail terminals based on openSUSE Leap {opensuse-version} must contain these child channels:

* openSUSE Leap {opensuse-version} Updates (x86_64)
* Uyuni Client Tools for openSUSE Leap {opensuse-version} (x86_64)

For more information about creating activation keys, see xref:client-configuration:activation-keys.adoc[].

== Register the Branch Server and Terminals as Clients

> You register both the branch server and the termianls as openSUSE clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You register both the branch server and the terminals as openSUSE clients.
```

To register your openSUSE clients, you need a bootstrap repository.
By default, bootstrap repositories are automatically created, and regenerated daily for all synchronized products.
You can manually create the bootstrap repository from the command prompt, using this command:

----
mgr-create-bootstrap-repo --with-custom-channels
----

For more information on registering your clients, see xref:client-configuration:registration-overview.adoc[].

=== Register the Branch Server

> A regular openSUSE proxy is going to be used as a retail branch server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A retail branch server is registered as an openSUSE proxy.
```

[[retail-server-setup]]
= Retail Uyuni Server Setup

> This section covers {productname} Server setup, using these procedures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section covers {productname} {smr} Server setup, using these procedures:
```

* Start {productname} setup with {yast}
* Create the main administration account with the {productname} {webui}
* Name your base organization and add login credentials
* Synchronize the openSUSE Leap channel
+
// ^^^ CHECKIT

[[retail-server-setup-yast]]
== Set up {productname} with {yast}

This section guides you through {productname} setup procedures.

.Procedure: {productname} Setup
. On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, as root, start {yast}:
+
----
yast2
----

. Navigate to menu:Network Services[Uyuni Setup] to begin set up.

. From the introduction screen, select menu:Uyuni Setup[Set up Uyuni from scratch] and click btn:[Next] to continue.

. Type an email address to receive status notifications and click btn:[Next] to continue.

> {productname} can sometimes send a large volume of notification emails.

Reviewer: These will need the indent. Two spaces is sufficient, which will line it up with the previous line (possibly less ugly than a tab/four spaces?).

When you have completed the {productname} {webui} setup, you are taken to the menu:Home[Overview] page.

== Add Software Channels

Before you register {productname} branch servers and terminals to your {productname} Server, check that you have the {opensuse} product enabled, and the required channels are fully synchronized.

The products you need for this procedure are:

[[opensuse-channels-cli]]
[cols="1,1,1,1,1", options="header"]
.OpenSUSE Channels - CLI
|===

| OS Version
| Base Channel
| Client Channel
| Updates Channel
| Other Channels

| {opensuse} Leap 15.2
| opensuse_leap15_2
| opensuse_leap15_2-uyuni-client
| opensuse_leap15_2-updates
| uyuni-proxy-stable-leap-152

|===

include::snippets/add_channels_cli.adoc[]

== Check Synchronization Status

include::snippets/check_sync_webui_uyuni.adoc[]

include::snippets/check_sync_cli.adoc[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
{opensuse} channels can be very large.
Synchronization can sometimes take several hours.
====

== Trust GPG Keys on Clients

include::snippets/trust_gpg.adoc[]

// FIXME Starting from here, everything is preliminary
// Feedback provided by Lukas

> == Create Activation Key for a Proxy (Branch Server) and the Retail Terminals

Reviewer: Since we're in the retail book, I would call it a branch server in the title, then explain that it's a proxy in the prose following.

> For more information about creating activation keys, see xref:client-configuration:activation-keys.adoc[].

Reviewer: Move this line to the end of the para that mentions activation keys.

> The activation key for a proxy (branch server) must contain these child channels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The activation key for a branch server must contain these child channels:
```

> * openSUSE Leap 15.2 Updates (x86_64)

Reviewer: Can we conditionalise the version numbers here?

Author: I don't know how to do this.  Just deleting the version number?

Reviewer: Deleting is simplest, if it will make sense without it. Otherwise, you can use {opensuse-version} which gets updated every time we package.

Reviewer: These are the entities that get checked and updated every time (from suma-site.yml):

```
    productname: 'SUSE Manager'
    productnumber: '4.1'
    docversion: '4.1'
    minorversion402: '4.0.2'
    saltversion: 3000
    sles-version: 15
    sp-version: SP2 #use for normal text
    sp-vert: sp2 #use for terminal block
    sp-version-l: sp1
    smrproductnumber: 4.1
    opensuse-version: 15.2
```

Author: sure, thanks for the reminder :facepalm:

Author: I think we'll also need something for 15_2 and 152.

Author: done as good as possible.

* Uyuni Client Tools for openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)
* Uyuni Proxy Stable for openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)

The activation key for retail terminals based on openSUSE Leap 15.2 must contain these child channels:

* openSUSE Leap 15.2 Updates (x86_64)
* Uyuni Client Tools for openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)

== Register Clients

To register your openSUSE clients, you need a bootstrap repository.
By default, bootstrap repositories are automatically created, and regenerated daily for all synchronized products.
You can manually create the bootstrap repository from the command prompt, using this command:

----
mgr-create-bootstrap-repo --with-custom-channels
----

For more information on registering your clients, see xref:client-configuration:registration-overview.adoc[].

> === Proxy

Reviewer: I feel like this needs a verb. Register? Also, probably should be "Branch Server".

Author: ok, but you actually must install an openSUSE proxy first.

This proxy is going to be used as a retail branch server.
The proxy can be bootstrapped using the {webui}, or at the command prompt.
Ensure you use the activation key you created for the proxy.

For more information about proxies, see xref:installation:uyuni-proxy-registration.adoc[].
For more information about activation keys, see xref:client-configuration:activation-keys.adoc[].

> .Procedure: Setting Up Uyuni Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Setting Up the Uyuni Proxy
```
missing article. either "the" or "an" works.
